In this phase of hepatic development and the establishment of gastric movement
and
of the omental bursa, initially I have an anterior pancreas and
a dorsal pancreas.
In this phase of rotation, the anterior pancreas will make a large three-quarter movement, like this. It joins the posterior part and will form the two pancreases. An exocrine pancreas, an endocrine pancreas. A pancreas that will secrete everything related to the system of gastric juices, pancreatic juices, i.e. amylase, lipase, protease. A pancreas that is connected to the liver and a dorsal pancreas, which will make this whole movement and we see all this rotation that will happen at the same time. This axis that will form here and it will place itself very posteriorly in a mesentery that we call posterior mesentery in relation to this hepatic rotation. If you understood yesterday this movement of development of the omental bursa, you begin to understand that all the rest is only a dynamic of this development, on a transverse plane. It is a pancreas, which releases insulin, so which opens the cellular doors to mitochondrial activity, to sugar activity. If you do dissection, you will see that it is very difficult to separate the duodenum from the pancreas. It is very deep, very difficult to separate. They are completely attached. If I am cut in half here, and seen from above, it makes a movement like this. It makes this hepatic movement like this, which turns the... stomach like this, which creates this omental bursa like this, which orientates itself. We are facing here like this. I go here in front. You will learn to feel it. It's like tai chi and it happens at the same time as in the brain. And it will happen at the same time as in your hands. I will see at the same time. the opening of the lungs I will have the looping of the heart I will have the development of my brain I will have the spiral of my diaphragmatic system, I will have the counter-clockwise development of my colon and I will have the expression of my upper limbs which will happen together when I have my brain flexion what will happen in my heart what will happen as an outline here, how my eyes will come closer, how my face, how my palate, how my lungs, where I am, etc.
méso  postérieur  en  rapport  avec  cette  rotation  hépatique.  Si
vous  avez  compris  hier  ce  mouvement
de  développement  de  l 'arrière  cavité  des  épiplombs,  vous  commencez  à  comprendre
que  tout  le  reste  n 'est
qu 'une  dynamique  de  ce  développement,  sur  un  plan  transversal.  C
'est  un  pancréas,
qui  libère  l 'insuline,  donc  qui  ouvre  les  portes  cellulaires  à
l 'activité  mitochondriale,  à  l 'activité  sucrée.
Si  vous  faites  de  la  dissection,  vous  allez  voir  qu 'il  est  très  difficile  de  séparer  le  diodénome  du  pancréas.
C'est très profond, très difficile à séparer.
Ils sont complètement accolés.
Si on me coupe en deux ici, et qu'on me voit par au-dessus, ça fait un mouvement comme ça.
Ça fait ce mouvement hépatique comme ça, qui tourne le...
estomac comme ça, qui crée cette arrière cavité comme ceci, qui s'oriente.
On est face ici comme ça.
Je vais ici devant.
You will learn to feel it.
It's like tai chi and it happens at the same time as in the
brain.
And it will happen at the same time as in your hands.
I will see at the same time.
the opening of the lungs
I will have the looping of the heart
I will have the development of my brain
I will have
the spiral
of my
diaphragmatic system, I will have the counter-clockwise
development of my colon
and I will have the expression
of my upper limbs
which will happen together
when I have my brain flexion
what will happen in my heart
what will happen
as an outline here, how my eyes will come closer,
how my face, how my palate,
how my lungs, where I am, etc.